♪♪
In zero-ten,
I will discuss
the dramatic events
transpiring in
your Imperial Sen...
(BEEPS)
Hope we're not
going to be hiding
in this can forever.
There's only so much
HoloNet I can take.
Well, I'd say
they're late,
but we don't even know when
they're supposed to show up,
or who we're meeting.
(CHOPPER GRUNTING)
Whoever they are,
Senator Organa wants them
to get where
they're going,
and he's trusting us
to get them fuel.
If he trusts us,
why is he keeping us
in the dark?
You know as much as I do.
No wonder Kanan volunteered
for that supply run.
Heh.
Imperial Senator Mon Mothma
of Chandrila
has shocked the Senate
with her treasonous remarks
against Emperor Palpatine.
I name the Emperor himself
for ordering
the brutal attacks
on the people
of Ghorman.
Their peaceful world is
one of countless systems
helpless against
his oppressive rule.
This massacre
is proof
that our self-appointed
Emperor
is little more than
a lying executioner,
imposing his tyranny
under the pretense
of security.
We cannot allow
this evil to stand.
Wow!
Did she really say that
about the Emperor?
I'm surprised
she's still breathing.
Lady's got guts.
(BEEPING)
(HISSING)
Maybe that's our contact.
I don't think so.
Chopper, scan.
(WHIRRING)
(SPEAKING IMPERIAL)
(CHOPPER GRUNTING)
A probe? What's it
doing way out here?
Speaks Imperial.
That's bad.
Let's blast it
before it spots us.
Ezra, get in the nose gun,
but hold your fire.
We don't want
to attract attention
if we can avoid it.
I'll power down
so it can't scan us.
(POWERING DOWN)
That includes you, Chopper.
(CHOPPER GRUNTING)
ZEB: Shush it.
(POWERS DOWN)
Nobody make a move.
(SPEAKING IMPERIAL)
I don't think
it saw us.
I'll be convinced
when it leaves.
(SPEAKING IMPERIAL)
(BEEPING)
That doesn't look
like leaving.
It's headed right for us.
Must be scanning
for life signs.
Well, that's just great.
(CHUCKLES)
We can't shoot it
with the power down.
Ezra, be ready.
Just say when.
(BEEPING)
Move a bit closer.
Just a little bit closer.
(BEEPING)
(SPEAKING IMPERIAL)
Now!
Come on, kid, hit it
before it transmits
our location.
Thing's quick.
(CONTINUES FIRING)
I can't get a clean shot.
(SPEAKING IMPERIAL)
(RESPONSE OVER COMLINK
IN IMPERIAL)
(SPEAKING IMPERIAL)
Whoa, who's that?
Never mind.
Stay on target.
(GRUNTS)
(SIGHS)
PILOT:
Phoenix Leader,
this is Gold Squadron.
We catch you at a bad time?
Sorry about that,
Gold Squadron.
Close call with
an Imperial probe.
Were you detected?
Chances are high,
it called for reinforcements.
Begin fueling immediately.
We need to get out of here
before the Empire arrives.
Captain Syndulla,
I presume.
I'm Erskin Semaj,
Senatorial attache.
And this is Captain Vander,
he leads Gold Squadron.
This is Ezra and Zeb
and Chopper.
So, what're ya
transportin'?
Please understand,
due to security concerns,
your crew
will not be allowed
to board our vessel.
Well, you're all
welcome aboard ours.
Let's get to refueling.
(HISSING)
We've heard
a lot about you,
Phoenix Squadron.
You have?
Yeah.
You blew up
the comm tower
on Lothal,
and Tarkin's
Star Destroyer.
The tower wasn't us,
but the Star Destroyer,
guilty as charged.
(CHUCKLES)
You might think twice
before you pull
another stunt
like that.
The Imperials have
tightened security
throughout the entire
Outer Rim as a result.
You're making
things harder
for all of us.
Well, we don't mind
doing things the hard way.
Let's have
this argument
another time.
Your little encounter
may have jeopardized
this mission.
Oh, you mean the probe.
What did you expect us to do?
It would have
been prudent to
avoid detection,
as ordered.
This assignment
is extremely sensitive.
Yeah? Well, maybe
you should have
given us a few
more details
instead of being
so sensitive about
your assignment.
(GRUNTING)
(SCOFFS) Did your droid
just insult us?
My crew did the best
we could,
but you didn't give us
much information
to go on.
Look, that probe,
it was probably
looking for us, specifically.
We are carrying cargo
highly valuable
to the Rebellion,
and desperately wanted
by the Empire.
(ALARM BEEPING)
We have incoming!
Gold Leader,
we have enemy contact.
Imperial cruiser
and fighters.
Move to intercept.
I'm on my way.
(LASERS FIRING)
(ALL GROANING)
(GROANS)
Gold Two is down.
Zeb, get her to Medical,
and then get on the guns.
What about our ship?
We need
all the firepower
we can get.
You got anyone
who can fly it?
Yeah, me.
He can do it.
Just remember
what I taught you.
(POWERING UP)
(LASERS FIRING)
We need to detach
from the transport
or we're all going down.
Chopper, jettison
the fuel pod
and get ready.
(GRUNTING)
(LASERS FIRING)
(CHOPPER GRUNTING)
The hatch is jammed?
We'll have to
detach it manually.
Come on.
Form up
a defensive perimeter.
We have got to
protect our transport
from that cruiser.
(LASERS FIRING)
MAN: (OVER PA)
Transport's lost shields.
Get everyone
off the transport
and on the Ghost, now.
(THUMPS)
Let us be
of assistance,
Captain.
Senator Mon Mothma?
Proper introductions will
have to wait, I'm afraid.
Right. If you could
help my droid,
I'll get us out of here.
(LASERS FIRING)
Gold Leader,
we need a diversion.
Copy. Gold Squadron,
follow my lead.
I'm right behind you.
GOLD LEADER:
Take your shot, kid.
(BEEPING)
Whoa! What was that?
GOLD LEADER: Ion cannon.
Disabled their shields.
(GRUNTS)
HERA: How's the detach coming?
We almost have it.
(GRUNTING)
Detach complete.
Finish their cruiser.
(LASERS FIRING)
Hit 'em, Gold Three.
Senator Mon Mothma,
this is my crew,
Zeb Orrelios,
and out there,
in one of
your bombers,
Ezra Bridger.
I know
of young Mr. Bridger,
and I thank you,
Captain Orrelios.
We saw your speech
on the HoloNet.
You really
let the Emperor have it.
MON MOTHMA:
I only wish words had
more of an impact.
Senator, let's forget
this mission
and get you back
to Chandrila
to a proper hiding place.
No hiding.
My presence
at the meeting
is not optional.
You mean the meeting?
Erskin, I trust them
to get me there.
We're in the process
of building an alliance,
uniting the various
rebel cells across
the galaxy.
My challenge
to the Emperor
was a call
to stand against
the Empire.
My hope is,
all who answer it will see
that they are not alone.
I must be there to meet them.
Her involvement
has been a secret,
but the Empire
will be attempting
to track any ship
that tries to leave
this system.
I know a way to sneak you
out of the sector.
Senator, we'll get you
to that meeting.
Give them
the coordinates
to Dantooine.
The rebel squadron
defended their transport
vigorously,
but we thwarted
their attempt to refuel.
A scan of the vessel
before it was destroyed
revealed no cargo aboard,
and only a small crew.
Their cargo was
something prized,
a certain Senator,
I suspect.
Senator Mothma?
Her capture
is a priority.
If she escaped
aboard the Ghost,
where is she now?
Not where you'd expect.
Captain Syndulla
will be creative
in avoiding your blockades.
She will brave
the unlikeliest path
to transport her passenger
out of the sector.
There, the
Archeon pass,
a favorite of
Outer Rim smugglers.
Through the nebula?
Our capitol ships
can't follow her.
Precisely.
So I've readied
my new prototype
and our best pilots
to hunt down and capture
this rogue Senator.
Grand Admiral, allow me
the honor of silencing her.
Very well, Governor.
Take Admiral Konstantine to
the far side of the nebula
and wait there.
When our fighters flush
the rebels out into the open,
you'll be in position
to capture
Senator Mon Mothma alive.
She could be
our key to locating
the true rebel fleet.
As you wish,
Grand Admiral.
Sometimes I envy
pilots like you,
traveling through the stars.
You can always
leave your problems
far behind you.
Can't imagine
you running from
your problems.
I've spent my life
in the Senate
trying to do good,
to preserve the rights
of the people.
And we are grateful.
Little good it's done.
The Emperor has crushed
freedom over the years,
bit by bit.
I've opposed him
where I could,
but I've begun to see that
the fight cannot be won
in the Senate.
The stakes are a bit higher
out here on the front lines.
Instead of being outvoted,
you're outgunned.
Life or death.
It's a new experience,
being on the run.
But if that's what
it takes...
Whatever it takes,
this Rebellion
is worth it.
(SHIPS WHIRRING)
The Archeon Nebula.
There are stars forming
in there.
Get too close
and you'll burn up.
Mmm, I can handle it.
Hera taught me a few tricks.
She's the best around.
Fighter inbound. Looks like a TIE of
some kind, closing from point one-nine.
GOLD LEADER:
Since when do TIEs
have hyperdrives?
Oh, no.
(SHIP WHIRRING)
Attention, rebel ship,
this is
Commander Vult Skerris
of the Imperial Navy.
(SHIP WHIRRING)
You are harboring
a traitor to the Empire.
Surrender immediately.
Gold Three and Four,
send him our reply.
Get out of there,
both of you.
I know that ship.
It's a prototype
TIE Defender.
It's armed with
heavy cannons and shields.
(SHIP WHIRRING)
(LASERS FIRING)
Go.
Close formation.
We might be able to
lose him in the nebula.
(LASERS FIRING)
GOLD LEADER:
Stay on the Ghost tight.
HERA: And disable
your proton torpedoes.
Why?
They've been known
to ignite the gas
in clouds like these.
(LASERS FIRING)
Those shields are too strong.
(BEEPING)
(CLICKS BUTTON)
(BEEPING SILENCES)
He's got a lock on you!
We lost Gold Five.
It's just us now.
(LASERS FIRING)
They're too fast.
We can't outrun them.
Ain't over yet.
Gold Leader, stay tight.
We're going in close
to that forming star.
Put all power
in your deflector screens.
(LASERS FIRING)
This is our only chance.
(CONTROLS SIZZLING)
(SHIP WHIRRING HEAVILY)
(ALARM BEEPING)
You got one!
(LASERS FIRING)
Oh, no, you don't.
(SHIP WHIRRING)
(LASERS FIRING)
Break off, kid!
Break off!
(LASERS FIRING)
Hera!
We're burning up.
(ALARM BEEPING)
(EXHALES)
He'll be back.
And that star took its toll.
We're losing power.
We'll hold off
the Defender
while you get the Senator
out of here.
GOLD LEADER: He's right.
Go now. We've got this.
Hera, got a new problem.
Two of 'em.
Chop, get me emergency power.
(GRUNTING)
(SHIP WHIRRING)
They've sustained damage
to their core systems,
and it seems
Commander Skerris
has dealt with
their Y-wing escort
in the nebula.
Hail the rebel ship.
(ON COMLINK)
This is Governor Pryce.
You have been charged with
treason against the Empire.
Now, submit or be destroyed.
Very well.
(BEEPS)
She'll never keep her word.
I know. I'm stalling her
while you figure out a plan.
(CHOPPER GRUNTING)
I'll take what I can get.
Keep working.
Look out! He's on top of us.
(LASERS FIRING)
Uh, he's coming around.
Gold Leader,
I'm bringing him
right to you.
Be ready
with that ion cannon.
He's too fast.
I'll never hit him.
Sure you will.
Just fire when I tell you.
(LASERS FIRING)
PRYCE: That is an impressive
list of demands, Senator.
You must understand,
I cannot allow others
to pay the price
for my actions.
(CHOPPER GRUNTING)
(SOFTLY)
Charging the hyperdrive.
Just another few moments.
They are
in range now, Governor.
Activate tractor beam.
Your requests
are denied, Senator.
Prepare to be boarded.
(CHOPPER GRUNTING)
(SIGHS) Chop, divert all
power to the engines.
(CHOPPER GRUNTS)
Get ready! I'm gonna fly
right through your sights.
What if I hit you?
He can't,
so you won't either.
And... Fire!
(CHUCKLES) Oh, you got him!
He'll recover from
that ion blast,
but you bought us some time.
We've got to get out of here
and find the Ghost.
GOLD LEADER:
You take the lead.
(SHIPS WHIRRING)
Hera, what's the plan?
We're not going to
be able to break free.
I'm sorry, Senator.
I'm going to have to
shut her down.
EZRA: Hera, do you read me?
Ezra?
(SHIPS WHIRRING)
HERA: Ezra, I'm afraid
I've got some bad news.
Oh, great.
Admiral, two rebel fighters
have exited the nebula
and are moving
to attack our flank.
Well, shoot them down.
They're too little, too late.
(LASERS FIRING)
We're caught
in a tractor beam.
Can you break us free?
GOLD LEADER:
Kid, charge your ion cannon
and arm
your proton torpedoes.
Proton torpedoes?
Negative, do not attack
the Star Destroyers.
Fire at the nebula.
The nebula?
Of course.
Remember what Hera said
about firing torpedoes
in the nebula?
GOLD LEADER: I understand,
Phoenix Leader.
We're going in.
You think
this will work?
(BEEPING)
We'll know in a minute.
Chopper, be ready
on the hyperdrive.
(CHOPPER GRUNTS)
(SHIPS WHIRRING)
(LASERS FIRING)
(ALARM BLARING)
We've lost the tractor beam.
We're free.
Make your jump now!
Phoenix Leader,
that was some of
the best fighting
I've ever seen.
I could say the same,
Gold Leader.
Kid, you can fly
in my squadron any day.
We're coming up
on the rendezvous point.
Ready to transmit,
Senator.
Let's just hope
someone's listening.
This is Senator Mon Mothma.
I've been called a traitor
for speaking out
against a corrupt
Galactic Senate,
a Senate manipulated
by the sinister tactics
of the Emperor.
For too long,
I've watched the heavy hand
of the Empire
strangle our liberties,
stifling our freedoms
in the name of ensuring
our safety.
No longer.
Despite Imperial threats,
despite the Emperor himself,
I have no fear
as I take new action.
For I am not alone.
Beginning today,
we stand together as allies.
I hereby resign
from the Senate
to fight for you.
Not from the distant halls
of politics,
but from the front lines.
We will not rest until
we bring an end
to the Empire,
until we restore
our Republic.
Are you with me?
Look!
They came.
Look how many
there are.
This, my friends,
this is our rebellion.